change the cadence right when you were passing the
reviewing stand and that they would do that just to
mess you up but i know they didn't do that for us
because we were always close to the bottom on our
marching ability so what about intramurals was
that highly competitive highly competitive and
uh uh for you know sort of I guess random chance we
had a lot of high school athletes in my freshman
unit and did very well in intramurals and
after that I'm you know I remember you always You
always fielded a team even if you were told at 3
o'clock on Tuesday afternoon that you were going
to go over and pitch horseshoes for the unit or
something. You would dutifully go do it. What was
your favorite and least favorite intramural
activities?
Well, I don't remember. because of my uh because of
the many good athletes in our freshman unit I
didn't get to participate on a lot of the you know
more glamorous the flag football or the
basketball or things like that um so I'm trying to
think of some of the things that I did um
uh I remember being, representing our unit in
tennis and maybe some
of the minor things. There was bowling. You know,
there were a lot of things that, but I don't
remember that I was particularly
good enough to do any of those things. Were there
any intramural sports that were very new to you?
Like they didn't do rugby, did they? No. And
lacrosse. No, none of those things. I think that
pretty much everything that we did was something
that
didn't seem like a rare or unusual sport. You said
you were an RV. Describe how the process, as far as
you understand it, how a person became a RV
selectee. Well, in those days you had to apply. And
that started in your sophomore year. And you, they
would go through the, then you had to interview and
you had to
you know get yourself all polished and shined up
you know and on your best military bearing and
everything and they would interview you and then
they
forgotten whether we got a letter or whether we
just we got a list sort of. Do you remember anything
about the interview? What was the topic? What were
the topics of the? I don't remember anything
about. Were these all RV members doing the
interviewing or were there some core advisors?
There was probably a core advisor present but all
of the questioning was done by the membership
committee and so you could get in, it
seems like there were two stages that you could get
into the RVs, but I may be remembering, that's
probably Alpha Zeta. You could get in as a
sophomore or as a junior. So in the RVs, at the end of
your sophomore year, you either were in or out. Do
you have any idea how many were selected, how many
new members each year?
I have the impression that there were about 100
or 120 in the unit or something like that and half of
them had to be new each year. As far as you're aware,
then and now, was the selection fair?
I really don't remember anybody that applied and
didn't make it. in those days. But
it was pretty well known that you had, I don't
remember what it was, but there was a minimum GPA
and there were you had to have something, some kind
of leadership activity, and you had to have done
something in the Corps, and
the reason that I chose to do it was sort of personal
discipline, not so much, you know, I didn't want to
go to New Orleans and march in whatever parade that
was, than run amok on Bourbon Street, which some of
the guys, you know, that's really what they wanted
to do. But I thought that it was about the highest
challenge as far as drill and ceremonies here. And
I thought I was not good in drill and ceremonies or
marching or anything. And I needed to be better at
that. And so that's the reason. Was there any kind
of formal initiation Yes, they had an initiation
banquet and we had to show up in our white suits. Did
you have to buy those? Yes. Well, I think so. At
least part of it, we may have.
We certainly had to buy the hats and things like
that. And the uniform then is exactly the same
uniform, isn't it, in design and color? I think so.
It was a white uniform and wore black shoes.
What were some of the important events that you
participated in as an RV? Well, I had some kind of a
conflict with the New Orleans trip and I didn't
make that. But we did go to San Antonio to the Battle
of the Flowers and marched there. And then I was not
active as a senior. Most of the juniors that came in
every year did not stay on as seniors. So if you
weren't an officer, it was, it was optional and to,
you know, whether or not you were gonna be active as
a senior, so. So did you march in the inaugural
parade?
No, I don't remember there being an inauguration
while I was. And were there any important visitors
to the campus that you remember being a? No. A guard
for them? No, I don't. I remember that we, that the
RVs had something to do at Mother's Day or, and
probably at final review. But I know on Mother's
Day we had to put on a drill. And I remember that.
Did,
what'd you do with your uniform when, Did you keep
it, sell it, give it away? I don't remember. I don't
think. I may have some of the epaulets or other
additions to that uniform, but I don't have the
uniform. And I don't remember what I did with it.
Were you aware as a student that there were any
secret fraternities here? There was a rumor that
there were some and I think that during my student
years there was a scandal and some people were
dismissed. I never did understand much about
that. I didn't really know anything about it
beforehand and was sort of appalled when it all
came out.
The details never did really come out. I mean, it
would be things in the battalion that so many
students were put on probation or dismissed or
something. Did you and your buddies read the PAT
during that era? Yes, I think so. Did you all give
high credibility to the battalion?
I don't remember that ever being discussed very
much. I think the battalion was probably always
struggling. Student newspapers were always
struggling to be as straightforward as the
editors wanted to be, and the administration was
always trying to suppress them, and at least that
was there. their arguments. How often did your
special lady come to visit the campus?
I cannot remember her coming down here over once or
twice and she, And then the one year she met me in
Austin and went to the football game there. But
she was, her background was about the same as mine
and so it was not, it's not particularly easy for
her to travel. I
guess she came down my sophomore year for a
football game here. And where would she have
stayed? She stayed with some people that I had met
at the Central Baptist Church. And I kind of forgot
that. But that's right. I went there some and had
met some people and she stayed with them. And there
were some faculty families that lived over,
south of Guyon Hall, weren't there still? Yes. And
students, guests stayed with them sometimes,
didn't they? Yes. Did you go to the boot dance and
things like that? I didn't do that, and when I
graduated,
we were planning to get married and we were
focusing mostly on uh finishing up here and
getting away so she didn't come down let's let's
back up uh your junior year uh you bought some
senior boots i presume yes from whom and how much do
you remember well i bought them from somebody in
the unit and
mostly based on their appearance and not on the
fact that they fit me. I remember they were about
two sizes too big or something like that, but they
were okay. And I don't remember much about what the
price was, but it seems like, you know, that it was
around $100 or maybe a little more than that. You
were spending money on that. You still had the 41
Chevy. Yes, at that time, yes. You went to the movie
occasionally and you ate out occasionally. Any
other personal expenses where you spent money for
a good time?
I can't really remember. We, you know, we would do
things like,
Play basketball or play tennis or something like
that as recreation. On campus. On campus. Uh-huh.
What were the student indulgences of the, what
were people smoking?
If you're talking about drugs, I never heard of
anyone using any kind of drugs during that time.
Had you even heard the words? I don't remember ever
hearing anyone that said, you know, they even knew
someone that did it. I don't remember ever hearing
it discussed.
The indulgences, I guess, the only one that I knew
about was alcohol. And people drank, was it beer or
whiskey where they were drinking much? I don't I
guess it was I don't guess I really know but you know
this county was dry and so people people that drank
would maybe go out across the river into Burleson
County and get something and bring it back and show
up at the dorm at two o'clock in the morning roaring
drunk and throwing coke bottles down the hall and
this sort of thing. But that's, that was a minor,
that was a very obvious minority of the student
body. And the smokers were smoking cigarettes.
Yeah, and a lot of people would smoke cigars on, a
Yale practice night so they could blow the smoke in
some poor freshman's face and not smoke any other
time. And I don't remember, you know, I don't
remember many people smoking, but I guess there
were a lot. And did any of them smoke pipes? A few,
yeah. Did people smoke in the dorms? Yes. Because
there wasn't any rule against it, were there? Not
that I know of. Telephones. If you needed to make a
telephone call, where was the telephone
available to a dorm student? Usually there was a
pay phone in the lounge. And, of course, they
required cash. They were not, you know, there was
no such thing as a credit card operated phone in
those days. and people didn't have enough
quarters. you know to make a long distance call
usually so they would go over to the MSC and there
was this room that I described a minute ago that was
um well if you go down the steps past the
registration desk for the room registration area
there it was just on the left there and I guess it
it's had several uses since that time and there was
an operator there and a bunch of phones and you
could pay cash there and make a phone call. You'd go
up after you finished your call and she would tell
you what your charges were. And then your senior
ring, do you remember what it cost?
No, I don't.
I remember that it was subsidized.
It may have been less than $50 though. And how did
you feel when you put that ring on? Well, that was a
great feeling, you know. I don't, I don't, I don't
remember feeling like I would never get it, you
know, but I just was very happy to have it. And
everybody that I knew, you know, smiled at me and
said, you know, that your right hand has suddenly
gotten to where you can't keep it anywhere except
more or less straight out in front of you. And the
ring was far more personally important than the
boots, wasn't it? Yes. Yes. And it was more
important than the diploma, you know. I mean, it
was the thing that people would see when you'd be
anywhere else. And it was the thing that was going
to be a symbol of recognition the rest of your life.
Do you have any good ring stories to share? where
somebody saw one, saw it a zillion miles away? Oh,
all over the world, you know. I mean, I've had
people come up to me on an airplane in Europe, you
know, and say, I saw your ring and,
you know, in Japan and in Brazil. just in the most
unlikely places that I've ever been an Aggie will
turn up and say I saw your ring and you then suddenly
realize that he has one on too the airplane in
Europe the two people that had on Aggie rings were
coeds after the time that women were here and women
were graduating and wearing rings and we were
flying from England someplace and there were two
young women wearing Aggie rings that saw mine and
whipped out. So that was a pretty amazing
experience. Have you ever lost yours? No. Okay, so
you don't have a story there. No. Let's see, then as
you're getting ready for commencement, you still
think you're going to be a professional in
ranching, in agriculture. And you got your
commission and you think you're going to get
called to active duty, is that right? Yes. But the
Korean War is over. Right. How did you and your
buddies feel about the fact that the war was over?
Well I know that everybody was glad because it had
it had stalemated no one thought we were going to
settle it militarily and so the longer it lasted
the more useless deaths were going to occur and so
everybody was glad that it was over And it really
had an impact on the Army because the Army was
funneling these second lieutenants through and
sending them to Korea and they were, you know, they
were not lasting very long over there in combat.
And all of a sudden there was no need for this cannon
fodder so they had to cut back on, they had to change
the way they handled the ROTC graduates. they
didn't have places to put all these second
lieutenants in the peacetime army now. So that was
the reason that I was, my orders were changed and I
went in for six months training and I had worked for
the soil conservation service for a while after I
graduated and decided I didn't want to do that any
longer. And so that's when I decided that I was
going to go to graduate school. And I came back here
to A&M still not sure what I was going to do. My,
one of my college roommates and I had been on active
duty for training at the same time and we were
talking about geology and changing our majors,
you know, and starting all over and he actually
started down that trail and didn't finish. And I
decided that I was going to go into research. So
that's how I actually came to meet Wayne Hall.
Yeah, we want to get to that in a minute. Yeah. So I
started back to A&M exactly one year and one summer
semester after I graduated. I was back here on
campus enrolled in graduate school. working in
range management
with my major professor's name was Robert Darrow.
D-A-R-R-O-W? D-A-R-R-O-W, yes. And Wayne
McCully was one of his PhD students, and he was sort
of my day-to-day advisor. And so we started back
here. By that, I'd been married a little over a year
at that time. My wife went to work for the City
National Bank within two weeks of when we arrived
here. And so that was the beginning of my graduate
experience. Let's back up and do some of the senior
traditions. Final review, did you go through
final review? Yes. What did it feel like?
it as a junior it's a great experience you know
because you're you know you just almost feel like
you could change your clothes in the front of the
whole world just to get to wear those boots you know
and I remember running off to find a dorm someplace
to change and put on my boots and everything and and
uh I was company commander and so you know that was
the first time I was going to be out in front of the
company and lead them past through using Stan and
everything we practiced that some ahead of time
and uh so that was that was a good experience uh I
think My wife-to-be was present for that final
review. This your junior year? Junior year. Yeah.
Yeah. And then my senior year, you know, everybody
said, well, it'll be, you just won't be able to
stand it, you know, you'll be so sad and
everything. Well, I was ready to graduate, you
know. I mean, being a student had been a lot of fun
and being in the Corps, in the end was fun. You know,
I didn't have a lot of fun my freshman and sophomore
year, but I didn't come, you know, to have fun. I
came to survive and to graduate. And so, but I was
ready to go on with my life at that point. And I was
not all teary-eyed about, you know, not going to be
here for bonfire next year and all that sort of
stuff. Alright, then commencement, where was
commencement held your senior year? G. Raleigh or
Guyon, or do you remember? Well, it had to be G.
Raleigh. And did family come? I don't,
I don't believe they did. I don't remember now. But
every name was called, every handshake. Yes. As
you were getting ready to leave the campus then,
how well prepared did you feel A&M had made you?
What did you think you had learned?
Well, I had mixed feelings. I
guess that I didn't have any reservations about my
ability to do the you know whatever jobs that I
might get
I was not at that point very confident that I was
prepared to do what I wanted to do. I wasn't sure I'd
made the right decisions about my future. And so I
was still very much in doubt as to whether, you
know, I wanted to go ahead and use my BS degree and
rely on it for the rest of my life. And that was then
borne out in my first work experience where I saw
what I thought was a very limited opportunity for
advancement. And I felt that just chilling that,
you know, that you could spend the rest of your life
doing something that approached sort of
technical clerk and never advance any or very
little. And you had done well academically.
Overall head drill. Yes. And but this was a
government bureaucracy and I just found that that
mentality of that group was that they put you in a
job more or less equivalent to a low level school
teacher and that you'd be there the rest of your
life and that you'd get a few little grade changes
and that you'd be happy to, you know, to have them.
You come back then a year, a little more than a year
later, and you start out in what program? Well, it
was in the same department that I had graduated
from. And how did you get over to associate with
this man named Wayne Hall? Well, Robert Darrow was
an interesting fellow. He had come to A&M from the
University of Arizona and he had the reason that
the story was that he had been involved in a
competition for the selection of a new president
and so he had supported one guy and the other guy had
been selected and so then he decided that he was
going to leave there and come to A&M and So he worked
in the area of
what the ranchers called brush control, killing
woody plants with chemicals. And so he stressed
that people that worked in this area needed to have
a good background in plant physiology. So he
wanted me to go over and take Wayne Hall's plant
physiology courses and there was several of them
that Wayne taught and I was very captivated with
that. He'd been here a couple years? Darryl had no
no no Wayne Hall had been here only six or seven
years at that time he'd come in very late 40s or
early 50s something like that so this is 56 and he's
you know very active very outgoing type of person
he's obviously
successful professionally. Were you and other
students aware of his
status, of his credibility as a scholar when you
took those courses?
Well the first course, no. But the second course
was on plant hormones and growth regulators and he
brought some of his research into those courses
and
that was of interest to me and he had several
graduate students and I got to know all of them as a
TA and
pretty soon I was pretty much aware of his
scientific status and everything. Make believe
that I didn't know him at all. Describe his
personality and his manner of teaching. Well, his
nickname was Machine.